Fix header semantics (#40243)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/reference/elements/header/index.md

## Usage notes

When not nested within [sectioning content](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Guides/Content_categories#sectioning_content), {{htmlelement("main")}}, or an element with the same ARIA role as these elements' implicit ARIA role, then the `<header>` element has an identical meaning to the site-wide [`banner`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/banner_role) landmark role. It define a global site header, which usually includes a logo, company name, search feature, and possibly the global navigation or a slogan. It is generally located at the top of the page.

> Otherwise, when nested within said elements, it loses its landmark status and behaves like a non-semantic container. See [Accessibility](#accessibility) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, when nested within said elements, it loses its landmark status and represents a group of introductory or navigational aids for the surrounding section. It usually contains the surrounding section's heading (an `h1` – `h6` element) and optional subheading, but this is **not** required.
```

## Usage notes

> The `<header>` element serves as a [`banner` landmark](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/banner_role) **only when** it is a direct child of `<body>` and contains site-wide content such as a logo or navigation.

Reviewer 2: the original was correct. the HTML's [<header>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/header) element has an identical meaning to the banner landmark, unless it is a descendant of [<aside>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/aside), [<article>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/article), [<main>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/main), [<nav>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/nav), or [<section>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/section), at which point [<header>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/header) exposes a [generic](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/generic_role) role, and not the equivalent of the site-wide banner. It does not need to be a direct child of the body. If  the body first child is a  `<div>` and the `<header>` is a child of  that `<div>`, for example, a it is still a landmark.

The `<header>` element has an identical meaning to the site-wide [`banner`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/banner_role) landmark role, unless nested within sectioning content. Then, the `<header>` element is not a landmark.

When nested inside sectioning content (such as `<article>`, `<section>`, or `<main>`), it loses its landmark status and behaves like a non-semantic container. See [Accessibility](#accessibility) for details.

> [!WARNING]
> **Avoid nested `<header>` for semantics**
> While valid HTML, it provides no structural meaning inside sections. Prefer:

```html
<section aria-labelledby="section-heading">
  <h2 id="section-heading">Heading</h2>
  <!-- Content -->
</section>

> ```

Reviewer: Is this warning supported by any authoritative source, like the spec, guidelines, or any expert opinion?

## Accessibility

The `<header>` element defines a [`banner`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/banner_role) landmark when its context is the {{HTMLElement('body')}} element.

> When placed inside an {{HTMLElement('article')}}, {{HTMLElement('main')}}, {{HTMLElement('section')}}, {{HTMLElement('nav')}}, or {{HTMLElement('aside')}} element, the `<header>` element has the [`generic`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/generic_role) role instead, and is no longer considered a landmark. In this case, it cannot be labeled with [`aria-label`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-label) or [`aria-labelledby`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-labelledby).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When placed inside an {{HTMLElement('article')}}, {{HTMLElement('main')}}, {{HTMLElement('section')}}, {{HTMLElement('nav')}}, {{HTMLElement('aside')}}, or an element with the same ARIA role as these elements' implicit ARIA role, the `<header>` element has the [`generic`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/generic_role) role instead, and is no longer considered a landmark. In this case, it cannot be labeled with [`aria-label`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-label) or [`aria-labelledby`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-labelledby).
```

The `<header>` element defines a [`banner`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/banner_role) landmark when its context is the {{HTMLElement('body')}} element. The HTML header element is not considered a banner landmark when it is descendant of an {{HTMLElement('article')}}, {{HTMLElement('aside')}}, {{HTMLElement('main')}}, {{HTMLElement('nav')}}, or {{HTMLElement('section')}} element.

When placed inside sectioning content such as {{HTMLElement('article')}}, {{HTMLElement('main')}}, {{HTMLElement('section')}}, {{HTMLElement('nav')}}, or {{HTMLElement('aside')}}:

- It is **not** exposed as a landmark to assistive technologies
- It receives a [`generic` role](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/generic_role)

> - It **cannot** be labeled with `aria-label` or `aria-labelledby`

Reviewer: I don't think it's worth a bulleted list. Just use a normal paragraph, like

> When placed inside sectioning content such as {{HTMLElement('article')}}, {{HTMLElement('main')}}, {{HTMLElement('section')}}, {{HTMLElement('nav')}}, or {{HTMLElement('aside')}}, it receives a [`generic` role](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/generic_role) and is not exposed as a landmark to assistive technologies. In this case, it cannot be labeled with `aria-label` or `aria-labelledby`.

As I said before, avoid using bold, always.

> This behavior aligns with the WAI-ARIA specification and is visible in browser accessibility trees using developer tools.

Reviewer: This sentence doesn't say anything. It says "this is true according to both the spec and the browsers" but that's by default the case. We only need to say so if that's _not_ the case.
